---
category: technology
title: 'Today I did a thing...'
date: 2020-09-24 10:15
tags:
- vulnerability research
- studies
- ics
description: "Today marks a significant milestone in a little side project I’ve been working on for better part of the past six years. Many of you know that I hold a position as a Distinguished Research Scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (it sounds fancier than it is). I have had the privilege of working at ORNL since early 2007 and have worked on projects in a broad range of disciplines. Those who know me well also know that I’m a bit of a non traditional ORNL employee. I did not join the staff directly out of post-graduate work nor did I have a long or impressive scientific career."
---

Today marks a significant milestone in a little side project I’ve been working on for better part of the past six years. Many of you know that I hold a position as a Distinguished Research Scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (it sounds fancier than it is). I have had the privilege of working at ORNL since early 2007 and have worked on projects in a broad range of disciplines. Those who know me well also know that I’m a bit of a “non traditional” ORNL employee. I did not join the staff directly out of post-graduate work nor did I have a long or impressive scientific career. 

I graduated with my BS in Broadcast Electronics in 1998 and spent the majority of the next decade in an IT/consulting role. I was sent to ORNL in 2007 for a three-day consulting project with the IT department. One thing led to another and I ended up working in IT there until the spring of 2009 when I was moved into the Computer Science Research group to work on scientific applications of cloud computing. I continued in this role until late 2011 when I joined ORNL full time and transitioned to the Computation Data Analytics group working on large-scale text analytics supporting federal law enforcement challenges. In 2015 I joined the Cyber Security Information Research group working on machine learning approaches to network traffic classification and in 2018 I was one of the inaugural members of the Vulnerability Science Research Group where I currently serve. Along the way I have been blessed to work with a number of brilliant, kind, dedicated individuals and I am incredibly thankful to them.

Very few people are aware of the fact that in early 2015, I was given a unique opportunity to, along with a handful of other cohorts, begin taking additional classes working towards post-graduate degrees with the [College of Engineering at Tennessee Technological University](https://www.tntech.edu/engineering/). I have shared this “project” with almost no one as I started with *severe* doubts that it would go any where or that I was qualified to or would be able to finish. The professors and staff at Tech developed a  partnership with ORNL in the areas of EE, ME and CS and worked to develop programs that allowed many of us to advance our education while continuing to work full time jobs as research scientists. Through this program, I obtained my Masters degree in Computer Science in December of 2018 and **today I successfully defended my dissertation** and (*assuming I finish the needed paperwork*) will graduate in December with my PhD in Engineering (focus: computer science). This represents the completion of a long road and, I’m pleased to be done.

The list of people to thank is incredibly long - like everyone else, I stand on the shoulders of others and have been helped in my career by many. My committee ([Dr. Stephen Scott](https://www.tntech.edu/directory/engineering/faculty/stephen-scott.php), [Dr. William Eberle](https://sites.tntech.edu/weberle/), [Dr. Sheikh Ghafoor](https://sites.tntech.edu/sghafoor/), [Dr. Michael Rogers](https://sites.tntech.edu/mrogers/), and [Dr. Stephen Canfield](https://www.tntech.edu/directory/engineering/faculty/stephen-canfield.php)) along with Dr. Adam Anderson have been incredibly helpful over the past 6 years and I have learned much from you. I have had a number of great students/interns as well as ORNL colleagues who have helped with my research and my studies. I couldn’t have done it without you.

My family has been with me on this project from day 1 and words fail to express my gratitude. As the father of four, our home is rarely boring and there have been many sacrifices due to my being busy with homework or projects. I love you all and hope that my hard work in this will serve as an example what you can accomplish with determination and amazing support. My wife, Julie, deserves the most thanks - she put up with my endless math questions (she has a degree in mathematics and I am... _not great_ at math), my distractedness, and my rambling on about weird ideas for experiments. She has also served as my primary editor/reviewer for my papers and then my dissertation. It has been a labor of love and I am grateful to have her by my side.
	
Some have asked about what comes next. Frankly, I will continue to do the work that I’ve been doing. This was a stepping stone along the journey and not intended to be a transition point. With any luck, the next few years will find me continuing to be a contributor on the [VR team at ORNL](https://www.ornl.gov/group/vs), learning, and helping others to learn. If anyone is interested, I have [uploaded my CV](/cv/) as it gives an idea of what I've been doing for the last few years.